In the website Legend of Karasi, the user is tasked with making a series of decisions that will influence not only the progression of an apocalyptic story but also their role (Christ, Anti-Christ, Survivalist, or Prophet) within the apocalypse. The story begins in Karasi, an African nation reimagined with themes of afrofuturism that prioritizes natural and folk religious elements along with communitarian values in their definition of modernity. The peaceful and highly-developed nation is struck by a foreign parasite called IMPIR that attaches itself to the crops that are essential for Ireji, a harvesting ceremony that is central to the community. Karasi, having never priorly experienced the devastating effects of imperialism and colonization, is met with such effects vis-à-vis IMPIR.//

//The name of the parasite itself is directly related to its symbolic message; the name IMPIR is short for imperialism. IMPIR as an apocalyptic agent exposes a greater warning to the user about the effects of imperialism: avarice motivated death, the deterioration of familial structures, and natural devastation. IMPIR’s role in the story as social commentary was heavily inspired by Kelly J. Schedtler’s and Justin Jeffcoat’s Apocalypse in Context which conceptualizes monsters (but can extend to any apocalyptic element) as revealers. Quoting religious writer Timothy Beal, they write, “in fact, ‘the monster’s religious importance is rooted in the word itself: ‘monster’ derives from the Latin monstrum, which is related to the verbs monstrare (‘show’ or ‘reveal’) and monere (‘warn’ or ‘portend’)...’” Therefore, similar to how an apocalypse is a moment of revelation, IMPIR (serving the same purpose as a monster) reveals a message or warning about the many ugly forms that imperialism takes shape. Additionally, much like Athenian historian Thucydides’s representation of a plague is centered around social disorder. The plague caused by IMPIR fundamentally disrupts familial bonds, neighborly relations, community-based values, and the order of the government.//

//Karasi is a technologically advanced nation that prioritizes environmental sustainability in their urban planning: “Our plumbing saved water, our electricity was powered by the sun, our materials were non-synthetic and local, our windows let in as much natural light as possible, and our rainwater was always harvested. Our buildings and homes almost looked like nature themselves with bright green grasses and plants protruding out of every crack and crevice of our walls.” The design of each building allowed each Karasian to have a personal garden. Taking inspiration from African folk religions, natural minerals are held sacred rather than exploited for profit and nature has deep-seeded ties to the spirits. The Dacryodes edulis or ube fruit is referenced throughout the story because of its religious uses and healing powers. The delicate balance between modern and traditional is best described in Chapter I, “I can still remember the scent that came with burning its stems and the relief that came with warding away evil spirits. My father would waft its sweet scent around his patients. Like all our healers, he cherished the importance of traditional practices despite our repository of pills and vaccines. My mother held the same beliefs and all the burials, festivals, and prayers she led were paired with its smoke dancing across the winds, tickling the air.” Further research on indigenous African religions inspired the kinship value system and egalitarian nature of Karasi. African folk religions stressed harmony between the sexes, peaceful coexistence, and ceremonial worship (lived experiences) over doctrinal mastery. Lastly, we were inspired by Ireji or the New Yam Festival of the Igbo in order to highlight the ceremonial importance that harvesting and nature continues to have. Through our research and some lived experiences, we were able to create a future that is heavily inspired by African history and the African diaspora at large. This was especially important to us because depictions of modernity tend to largely be Eurocentric while Africa is almost always depicted as trapped in history. Furthermore, the attack by the parasite IMPIR in the midst of the Ireji traditional ceremony was meant to reflect the European disregard of indigenous cultures. The success of this parasitic attack on even the highly-advanced Karasi nation also reflects the crippling power of colonization that is often-undermined in history.//

//The four archetypes of the narration rely on both traditional religious apocalyptic roles as well as more modern interpretations. This juxtaposition of secular and divine roles is essential in creating the tension in which the traditional religious values of Karasi are at odds with the largely secular imposition of IMPIR. Throughout the story, it is clear that Karasians historically believe in divine intervention and thus the interpretation of their apocalypse does create biblical archetypes. However, we reject the notion that imperialism is predestined or a part of a divine plan and use the survivalist figure to show how the user’s own humanity is degraded due to its effects.//

//In an apocalypse, a survivalist is one who does not know or care for the causes underlying the rapture, as these causes are out of their control. What is in their control, however, is how they fare in the context of the apocalyptic environment they are placed in. In such an environment, a survivalist does whatever they can to ensure the safety of themselves and their loved ones, at any moral cost. In our story, the survivalist trope is played out in exactly this way. Choices that indicate a focus on safety, preparation, and self-preservation lend themselves to this character arch. The survivalist makes choices in these interests to and even past the point where they directly clash with the cultural, spiritual, and moral values that the character holds dear. The survivalist is heavily inspired by the character Neville in R. Matheson's I Am Legend for through witnessing death and torment, Neville is stripped of his humanity and is fundamentally changed. Similarly, the user that plays the survivalist leaves their nation and relatives, a choice that is very uncharacteristic of a Karasian who values nation and family above all. The survivalist is often depicted as the last man on earth. Much like in George G. Byron's Darness, surviving the apocalypse comes with the burden of watching society's downfall up until its very end. As such, the user that plays the survivalist is forced to reckon with death, violence, and decay as they leave Karasi. They see images of their green lively city transformed into a lifeless desolate battleground.//

//The prophet in a biblical interpretation receives word from a deity to deliver their divine message to humanity, most notably a warning about the coming of an apocalypse. A succinct definition of a prophet can be found in this passage, “Then the Lord put forth His hand and touched my mouth, and the Lord said to me, ‘Behold, I have put My words in your mouth. See, I have this day set you over the nations and over the kingdoms to root out and pull down, to destroy and to throw down, to build and to plant’” (Jeremiah 1:9-11, NKJV). Throughout the story, the Prophet is able to reject political and religious authority that has been corrupted (much like conspiracy theory researchers in Ted Daniel’s A Doomsday Reader) and follows through with their instincts that have been largely guided by the spirits. As such, the Prophet has an uneasy feeling from the beginning and acts upon that feeling to better assess the intentions of everyone affected by IMPIR. The prophet thus foresees the apocalypse and spreads that message by explaining to the mother about the parasite ridden crops. Later, they are almost certain in the cure offered by the coming together during the Ireji feast and put great faith in humanity.//

//The Christ figure is the savior of the apocalypse that throughout the story makes an active effort to preserve the humanity of Karasi and spread its cure to all individuals. The Christ figure always chooses the side of peace, even when that means potentially jeoparding their life in order to appeal to the empathy of their aggressors. Additionally, much like the depiction of Christ in the bible, this archetype will always spread the truth, even if it is not easily digestible. Once again, Christ puts themselves at risk in order to advance the good of all. As such, Christ never loses focus of Karasi’s communitarian values. While the survivalist prioritizes the preservation of self, Christ prioritizes the preservation of the species. As such, they reach out to all Karaians with food and incense in order to bring the community together and remind humanity of what it once was.//

//The realist Antichrist in this telling of the apocalypse advances the effects of IMPIR and aids in society’s demise while hiding under a veil of kind lies. The Antichrist gains the trust of all members of their community and in practice, is almost indistinguishable from Christ. They are the final enemy because they stay undetected. The user themself does not know that their actions are dangerous to humanity until the final chapter where it is revealed that their white lies, staunch defense, and appeals to violence only furthered the death and destruction of the apocalypse. In Kevin Hughes’ The Formation of AntiChrist in Medieval Western Christian Thought, “an important facet of Antichrist’s symbolic power is this ‘sense of ending’, the sense that present choices, present failures, are connected intimately, corporally, to an uncertain future. If Antichrist symbolically embodies human evil, it is always an evil that is in process, in motion in time and history.” Throughout the story, the Antichrist represents the human evils of dishonesty, placation, recklessness, and glory. Through the Antichrist, we learn more of our own sins.//

//Through the use of afrofuturistic elements, we were able to create an image of what African countries could be if not for imperialism. However, we strayed away from portraying the apocalypse as a force of liberation because IMPIR did not expose pre-existing societal tensions but rather created new ones. Therefore, it seemed almost tone-deaf to highlight any positive effects of IMPIR when so much loss and destruction surfaced as a result of the parasite. We conceptualized imperialism as a tangible entity, we wanted to be honest about how heavily much of the continent of Africa was devastated by greedy leaders that exploited their nature and people and broke down any pre-existing structures. For example, colonialist leaders would often prop up some tribes at the expense of others and create artificial divisions between communities (the most prevalent example is the actions of Belgium in Rwanda).||

##Introduction//IMPIR//Afrofuturistic Themes//Archetypes//Survivalist//Prophet//Christ//Antichrist//Unused Apocalyptic Motif##