Chapter V: Recognition||Mom and Talha are waiting for us inside, eager to share their high spirits. Dad and I attempt to mask my troubles and join in the fervor, but once again my loved ones know me too well for my true feelings to go undetected.

“What’s gotten into you {{ name }}?” asks Tahla. “The biggest day of the year and your face is wilted like a dying flower.”

 Keen as ever. I could never hope to slip anything by her, no less on Ireji of all days.

“Still worried about my crops,” I blurted out anxiously. Lying had never been the Karasi way. I briefly worried if they’d sense my dishonesty.

“Kwasia, you seem to get like this every year around Ireji. Anyway, mom and I have already harvested our crops if you want to take a look. If we got potatoes that voluptuous then I’m sure yours will be great.”

* Kwasia: casual slang similar to dummy or silly

I look towards the kitchen counter where a slew of crops sits washed and ready for tomorrow’s celebration.

My mom joins the conversation. “Your sister’s right {{ name }}. How about you go outside and harvest your crops and I’ll make some egusi soup to soothe your nerves.”

Mom might be a little hard on us sometimes, but she would do anything to make sure Talha and I are happy.

“Thanks Mom. I’ll go do that right now.”

“And I’ll go take a shower,” Talha interjects. “I feel disgusting after all that harvesting.”

After everything that’s happened today, harvesting would actually be the perfect escape. As I head outside, I’m greeted by the familiar fields that have become my second home. The moment my nose inhales the natural scent of my family’s garden, I remember the joy of the Ireji ceremony and everything I’ve been waiting for.

Each year, I would dig the crops out from the vibrant soil with my parents. We would laugh and smile as we took splendor in the spirit’s blessings and our own hard work. It was also ceremonious to pray to the spirits after harvesting the first crop, in show of our gratitude. Since the Ireji ceremony is so closely tied to the natural world, over these few days our connection with the spirits is deeper than ever before. Because of the sanctity of this connection, only those over 18 years of age are allowed to pray over the first harvested crop. After all this time waiting, I too would be able to fully take part in the Ireji ceremony.

Revitalized by the spirit of Ireji, I dash towards my plots. An assortment as vibrant as a rainbow lays before me: carrots, potatoes, artichokes, onions, and more. I had long since decided that my first harvested crop would be the potato; it was the first crop I ever watched my parents harvest. I grab a nearby spade and prepare myself. Years of digging out crops had made me more than familiar with this tool. With one smooth motion, I scoop the potato from the ground into my ready hands. I almost want to celebrate this small victory but I maintain my composure. It was finally time. Time to deliver the prayer that I had thought about almost every night since my first Ireji ceremony. I shut my eyes to any distractions from the outside world. I soothe my breathing. I clear my mind and heart of all of my vices. I feel connected to the potato in my hand and the other crops around me. But, for some reason, this connection is quickly severed. A sharp pain emanates from my hands up to my chest and I drop the potato.

“What… what just happened?” I mumble to myself in both pain and confusion.“Did the spirits refuse me? But I didn’t even say my prayer yet. I’ve never heard of something like this happening before.”

In the midst of my confusion, the now dented potato rolls back towards me, and the source of this irregularity becomes clear. The entire back of the potato is covered by a network of bulging, purple capillaries. I push the potato away quickly in disgust.

“What the hell is THAT?” I scream out.

The potato’s once lively brown begins to pale with each bulge of this capillary network. For some reason, I’m reminded of the robber from this morning.

I begin to think, “After being removed from the ground they feed off their source...”

I instantly remember Mom and Talha’s crops lying on the counter.

“If they were to eat those—”

My legs begin to move before I can even finish my thought.||

####

****

%%%%

&&&&

$$$$

@@@@

{{ filler }}