Chapter I: Karasi||I can’t conceptualize my life outside of IMPIR; I have pocketed all my memories into pre and post, before and after, tranquility and uncertainty. I can only hope to find solace in writing to you as I sit in my father’s handcrafted mahogany armchair, remembering the fallen Khaya tree that helped bring it to life. The nation of Karasi, a nation nestled between Ayira and the Dembe River, used to be home to not only the Khaya but every flora that your mind and heart could desire. Granted, we were and still are a nation of cities but our connection to our land was at the basis of every decision we made. Our buildings, although modern and grandiose, were designed with the protection of our sacred elements in mind: air, water, and earth. Our plumbing saved water, our electricity was powered by the sun, our materials were non-synthetic and local, our windows let in as much natural light as possible, and our rainwater was always harvested. Our buildings and homes almost looked like nature themselves with bright green grasses and plants protruding out of every crack and crevice of our walls.

I spent most of my time tending to our community rooftop garden. It was in plot 10A that I discovered what it meant to sustain life. My parents favored the cultivation of Dacryodes edulis, or ube as we call it, for its ritual and medicinal uses. I can still remember the scent that came with burning its stems and the relief that came with warding away evil spirits. My father would waft its sweet scent around his patients. Like all our healers, he cherished the importance of traditional practices despite our repository of pills and vaccines. My mother held the same beliefs and all the burials, festivals, and prayers she led were paired with its smoke dancing across the winds, tickling the air. Our land had given us so much and we were forever indebted to her. In open fields with our sacred cobalt deep in our grounds, we sat hand in hand and gave thanks to her. No matter who you were, elder or otherwise, we were equal in our service to the natural world.

It was that sense of community and union that I miss the most. The elders in all their wisdom would coordinate our incredible surpluses to ensure that no one would be left without food, shelter, and medicine, but it was our relationship with one another that truly governed. We needed each other and it was for that reason that the craftspeople were just as valuable as our healers, our teachers just as valuable as our elders, and our fathers just as valuable as our mothers. As I boarded our public trains powered by the forces of the wind, I saw the city and its people in all its glory. As if I was watching a movie at two times speed, the flurry of colors and images flashed before my eyes: beautiful scenes of neighbors enjoying purple-red sobolo together, children competing against each other in Mancala (back in my time I was a reigning champ), and singers with booming voices giving small concerts in our many parks. The dark brown of our rich dirt, the oversaturated green of our leaves kissed by the sun, the soft blue of our skies reflected in our streams. This is how you should remember Karasi, a land whose name quite fittingly translates to life and wisdom in our native tongue.||

####

****

%%%%

&&&&

$$$$

@@@@

{{ filler }}