Chapter VII: Journey||As Tahla and I rush into the car, I am forced into making decisions with a frantic mind. Both Yafeu’s family and my uncle’s live nearby, and my uncertainty of their safety is sickening.

I make my decision before pulling out of the driveway--Yafeu’s house was no more than a few blocks away. I needed to check in on his family.

In as few words and little detail as possible, I inform Tahla where we would go.

“For what reason? What is going on? Why are we leaving? Where are mom and-”

"SHUT UP!”

My mind races too quickly to properly process her words but the mention of our parents triggers something in me.

I see the hurt and fear in her face from my reaction, I can offer no explanation at this time. We continue on in silence.

While we drive, we see not so much as a soul on the traditionally busy streets of our community. We continue down our silent path, with no sound save for the crunching of leaves under our wheels.

To find answers for the trauma we were experiencing, I decide that after our stops, Tahla and I must head to the Elder’s Den, the quarters of the leaders of Karasi. If my own mother could not be trusted at this time, I couldn’t imagine anyone could, save for them. Our history books detailed the stories of generations of elders saving our nation in the crises of its early days. Hopefully the same would be true now.

 As we pulled into the culdesac of Yafeu’s community, I see that the doors of the house were left ajar. Traditionally, this would simply be an invitation for visitors, but in a time like this it likely meant something more ominous.

“Stay here,” I instructed Tahla, hoping to ensure the path was safe and clear before we proceeded. She made no sound as I slowed to a stop and left the car.

As I drew nearer to the house, I felt my stomach gradually drop in my body.

I crept inside, praying the spirit of Ireji would bring about some good this day.

Our next stop would be our uncle’s place, only a few minutes away from where we were now. At this time their home was the only other place I could imagine feeling any type of safety or hope.

Within two minutes of driving through our eerily empty neighborhood, we arrive at our uncle’s home.

The door was wide open, and hanging off its hinges. My hopes quickly sink as I slowly exit the car.

I instruct Tahla to wait inside as I slowly approach the rattled door of my uncle’s home. As I walk through the door, the utter silence in the house raises the hairs on my neck. From the chaos that erupted in our house, I know to head directly for the kitchen. In front of the pantry, I see the opposite of what I was looking for.

In a gruesome scene, I see the cold husks belonging to my aunt and uncle strewn across the kitchen floor. There were two cold half-eaten plates sitting on the counter.

Now devoid of both hope and options, I am too empty to even properly mourn my loss. Ireji, an event I had adored and celebrated for so long, no longer feels like some festive holiday. It will forever be stained with violence and death in my memory.

I offer my aunt and uncle a prayer, and think of what to say to Tahla as I return to the car. When I do, Tahla looks into my eyes, questioning me in a way that needs no words.||I couldn’t believe that our culture could be lost so quickly, and if it was to be saved the elders would know how. The drive would take the whole night, and we had enough battery to make it. All we needed was to get there safely, and pray that whoever was there could help us.

It was around 7 when Tahla and I left behind the familiar streets of our town en route of the Elders’ Den. We drove under the cover of night.||

##Lie to her//Tell her the truth//Show her the truth##

**I tell her that they were gone, nowhere to be found in the house. The Tahla I knew would easily detect such a convenient lie, but it seemed that she was willing to believe. So much had happened already, she didn’t need their deaths weighing on her too.//I didn’t have the heart to describe what I had seen to her, so I hung my head and shook it no. We both fought back tears as we continued along.//So much had gone wrong already, and more was sure to come. It was time Tahla saw what we were up against with her own eyes.

I help Tahla out the car and head toward the house once more, making no comment on what I had seen. I let her walk in herself, and she runs out bawling into my arms within seconds.

“This is the world we live in now Tahla. I’m so sorry you had to see that, but I do believe that you had to. To be ready for what we may face next.”

She makes no response save for her tears.**

%%Antichrist//Christ//Survivalist%%

&&For once this day, my prayers are answered.

I am greeted at the door with hugs from Yafeu and his mother, and it brings immeasurable joy and relief.

“Yafeu! Thank the spirits you guys have not been afflicted.”

“Not quite true,” he responds. “My father always eats one of his potatoes raw right after harvesting. After a while it seemed to affect him. Something took hold in him, and it took both me and my mother to restrain him.

“Yes, we are still a bit shaken up,” his mother noted, “but we are glad to be safe and have him under control whilst in his condition. What about your family? You're not out here alone are you?”

I darted outside and motioned for Tahla to join us inside.

They embrace her as they did me, and we all huddle up in the kitchen to discuss what had happened. I tell them and Tahla of the chaos that had ensued in our home, bringing sadness and silence to us all.

In the interest of hope, I tell them of my plan to consult the elders.

“They’ve got to have some strategy to stop whatever is going on. They were hoarding resources just before all broke loose, maybe it’s a part of some plan they’ve formulated.”

“I wish I could join you {{ name }}, but I need to stay and help watch over my father.”

Yafeu and his family couldn’t join us on our journey, but they are still able to help. They give us a bag full of supplies and valuables and wish us well with our journey.//What I saw changed that, and it changed me as well.

The walls of the kitchen were splattered with streaks of crimson, and the red was concentrated around a spot just behind the counter.

I did not dare to see what was behind it.

I collapsed to my knees and bawled on the tile of their kitchen floor. I had witnessed the death of my best friend, and was forced to forever live with the guilt that came knowing I had instigated the events that caused it. Now, I had to bear witness to the erasure of the rest of his family as well.

Through tears, I prayed for the souls of Yafeu and his parents. When I finished, I closed the door and headed back, preparing myself to face Tahla after what I had seen.

“What happened? What is happening?” Tahla exclaimed.

I could no longer hide the truth. I told Tahla the truth about what happened while she was gone, and of what had happened to Yafeu earlier today. For minutes, no sound but our weeping could be heard.

“...Wh-what about the rest of his family? Were they home? Can they help us?”

I shook my head no as I, no as we both wept.&&

@@yafeu_dead@@

$$I crept inside, praying the spirit of Ireji would bring about some good this day.$$

{{ filler }}













