Chapter III: The First Day||Shortly after passing the first bend towards school, I link up with Yafeu like normal. Yafeu is as energetic as ever, almost skipping in merriment for the first day of school.

“Morning {{ name }}!”

“Morning Yafeu.” From the disappointed look on his face my tired greeting clearly wasn’t enough for him.

“I know you're not normally the type to get excited for the first day of classes, but I thought today being Ireji would have you more energized than that…”

“I am excited!” I try to show a little more energy this time. “I was just up all night checking my crops before the final harvest.”

Yafeu reluctantly accepts my excuse and changes the topic. After being friends with someone since childhood, it tends to be a little difficult to get anything past them.

When we get to school, Yafeu and I go through the regular first-day routine: pick up your schedule, duck past old teachers, and shuffle into the gymnasium for the brief entrance ceremony. The principal gives a speech similar to last year’s entrance ceremony, but I noticed one main difference. The principal ends her speech with:

“When two brothers are busy fighting, an evil man can easily attack and rob their poor mother. Mankind should always stay united, standing shoulder to shoulder so evil can never cheat and divide them.”

As Yafeu and I split up for our individual classes, that quote weighed more and more on my mind throughout the day.

Like any other first-day, all of my classes were full of syllabi and advice for the year. I was much less focused this year than the previous, largely because of the Ireji ceremony. The only class that brought me into focus was Agriculture, as Ms. Achebe gave a breakdown of the Ireji ceremony for those who still weren’t familiar:

“The Ireji ceremony is the most important ceremony of the year for Karasians. The first day, which is today, begins with the fruitful harvest of all of the crops. The harvest reflects nature’s gift to us for our reverence throughout the past year. The second day will be the harvesting celebration as I’m sure you all are familiar with. Lastly, the third day will be…”

I stopped listening after hearing the same introduction script as last year. No one had been anticipating this year’s Ireji ceremony for as long as me.

When classes finally get out, I meet back up with Yafeu to walk home.

“I can tell just from looking at you that you were zoned out all day.”

“I guess. It’s hard to stay focused with the Ireji ceremony finally here.”

“I get it {{ name }}. You’ve always loved the Ireji ceremony, but we have our whole future to think about. It’s our last year of school.”

I let out an audible sigh and just keep walking.

Almost back in our neighborhood, a tall, pale man about my dad’s age approaches Yafeu and I.

“Happy Ireji kids! How are y’all doing?”

Karasi’s beauty has always lied in its kind-hearted strangers, and on the day of Ireji things were no different.

“We’re doing pretty well sir. And you?” Yafeu respectfully responds.

“I’m doing pretty well myself! I’m just trying to get rid of some traditional wear for the third day of Ireji and was wondering if you’d both be interested. It’s all free in the spirit of Ireji of course!”||As we followed the man to his wares, I couldn’t let go of my feeling of discomfort.

The man’s goods were just a little way down the street. We could quickly show our respect by accepting his invitation and return to our normal route.

As we turned into a branched alleyway, my inexplicable unease began to govern all my thoughts until I had to say something to Yafeu. But, it happened so quickly. In the seconds that I began to open my mouth, the man had grabbed Yafeu by the neck and put him in an armlock. Bringing his other hand out of his pocket, the man unsheathed a knife and pressed it against Yafeu’s now pale skin. A drop of blood slithered down Yafeu’s neck onto the dark pavement.

“You better not scream! Quickly, drop everything you have or he dies.”

Dies. His words almost passed completely through me. Had Yafeu’s blood not been soaking into the ground, I doubt anything would have convinced me that this situation was real. I faintly remember discussing situations like this in my pre-Karasi history class. Robbery: the action of taking property unlawfully from a person by force or threat of force.

“HEY WAKE UP! I’M NOT MESSING AROUND. DROP EVERYTHING!”||

##Refuse his invitation//Accept his invitation##Give everything you have//Disparage the robber//Fight back##

**“Sorry sir, I think we’re fine,” I quickly replied. For some reason the uneasy feeling I had all day jumped out.

“Come on {{ name }}, don’t be like that. We can’t just turn down this man’s generous offer. Especially on the day of Ireji.”

Yafeu was right. It was extremely disrespectful to refuse such an offer from an elder figure, especially on the ceremonious first day of Ireji.//**I quickly shuffled through my pockets to take out everything I had. 1 gold coin, 10 silver, and 5 copper. Not much, but definitely enough for a few meals. I put the coins in between myself and the robber; in a movie I watched, this action signaled an exchange.

The “robber” looking at my meager valuables, appeared to be satisfied. With Yafeu still in hand, he walked towards the coins. In a flash, he pushed Yafeu onto me and picked up the coins all in one motion, quickly taking off afterward.

Yafeu and I followed suit and ran out of the alleyway as fast as we could.//“SHUT UP!” I exclaim almost unnaturally. From the look on the robber’s face I can tell he’s as shocked as I am.

Rage boils in me as I look down at Yafeu’s soaked up blood on the concrete.

“You are so pathetic. Just look at yourself. Robbing some children with a knife to their neck. FOR WHAT? The spare change in my pocket?”

I take the few coins out of my pocket and show them to him.

“THIS! THIS IS WHAT YOU’RE WILLING TO KILL FOR?” I throw the coins at him.

“THERE! ARE YOU HAPPY NOW? IS THAT WHAT YOU WANT?”

The boiling rage in the robber’s face was more than clear to me. But within that, why did I see... a tinge of sadness?

“You’re going to regret that,” he faintly mumbles.

“LET YAFEU—”

My eyes widen. Before I can finish my sentence the knife’s cool blade has already caressed Yafeu’s throat once more, digging into his flesh. He drops to the cold cement. His natural warmth fading by the minute.

“Ya-, Yafeu, YAFEU!” My cries provide cover for the man to make his escape out of the alleyway.

Gathering myself, I call the police, my dad, and Yafeu’s parents but I knew it was too late. By the time the police arrived, Yafeu was pronounced dead on the scene. I rested my fingertips on my best friend’s eyelids and closed them shut as he entered an eternal sleep.//I look down at my hands. They’re shaking uncontrollably. But not from fear… in fact I’m excited. The robber seems to have sensed that something was off, exclaiming once again:

“THIS IS THE LAST TIME I’M TELLING YOU! DROP EVERYTHING!”

I calmly reach into my pockets. Buried below a few coins, I feel my family’s traditional cobalt gem. Pressing my fingertips harshly against it, blood begins to drip. I had never before thought of its sharpness.

I approach the robber with my right hand extended, carrying my meager change, while my other hand nestles around the new blade in my pocket.

The robber, distracted by my coins, leans in to assess their value. In one swift motion, I drop the coins on the dirtied ground, bring my other hand out with the cobalt clenched tightly into my skin, and stab the stone into the robber’s strangling arm.

As I drag the stone down his forearm, I see his face screaming but hear no sound. He releases Yafeu and drops to the ground, holding his ruined arm.

“{{ name }}!” Yafeu yells as he runs up to me.

His voice snaps me back into reality and I suddenly feel sick to my stomach. As the robber flees, I release this sickness on the side of the alleyway.

Yafeu and I begin to walk back on our original route, but clearly things have changed. Yafeu’s eyes do not meet mine once. The silence is almost deafening.**

%%Prophet//Antichrist%%Christ//Antichrist//Survivalist%%

&&&&

$$$$

@@@@

{{ filler }}