Chapter VI: Family||“Honey, can you believe this! The elders have declared that all cobalt and natural minerals be streamlined through them! Don’t they know that those stones are sacred? I just...” My dad is yelling this as I enter the house.

Clearly startled by my rapid entrance, they halt their conversation and look at me. My mother says, “You’re just in time, the food’s ready. Did the harvest go well?”||Before my mom can finish her sentence, she drops to the ground while gripping her abdomen. She begins to scream out in agony, writhing in extreme pain.

“Honey what’s wrong!” My dad shouts as he runs into the kitchen.

“I was too late…” I mumble to myself.

My dad kneels down on the kitchen floor and rests my mom’s head in his hands to stop her from moving. She had already sustained several cuts and abrasions to the face from her aggressive movements.

“Dad, is there some type of medication or anything you can give her?”

Without a moment of hesitation my dad responds, “Mash some ginger, peppermint, and fennel together and mix it with water now!”

I rummage through the cupboards, searching desperately for the listed ingredients. But... before I can find all of them, my mom’s screaming abruptly stops. I turn around slowly in confusion to see my “mother” strangling my stunned father. Flashbacks from this morning pour back into my head as my ears start to ring.

I shake my head aggressively. I can’t let this happen.||

##Throw out the food//Explain what you think is going on##Talk her out of it//Restrain her##

**Without saying a word, I run into the kitchen and begin throwing all of the harvested crops and my mother’s prepared meal into the trash.

“{{ name }} what are you doing!” My mom grabs my arm while yelling. “Do you think I harvested this food all day and cooked it for you to disrespect me?”

“Mom you don’t understand there’s something wrong with the crops! There’s some kind of parasite!”

“Ah ah, do you think I am stupid? I tasted that very same food you are talking about and it was fine. Why are you lying to me?”

“You.. you tasted it?”

“Do not make me repeat myself {{ name }}. I tasted it and it was very delicious before you—”//Frantically, I say, “Mom, Dad we can’t eat that food or ANY of the harvested crops. There was some kind of parasite on my crops outside that sucked the life out of a potato. We have to get rid of it all.”

Worriedly, my mother asks, “A parasite? {{ name }} what are you talking about? You’ve been acting strange all day.”

“I know it doesn’t make sense, but I have a feeling that eating that food will cause something terrible.”

“{{ name }} I already tasted some of the food and I feel fine. You might’ve just seen some things when you connected with the spirits.”

“You.. you tasted it?”

“Yes I did, now—”**“MOM!” My shout both garners her attention and focuses my mind on the current situation.

I cry out, “This isn’t what you want Mom, it’s the parasite! You would never do this to our family… just take a look at yourself!”

My mother moves her gaze towards me slowly, shifting her attention away from the breathless person in her hands. The moment her eyes lock onto me, my despair suddenly deepens. She begins, “{{ name }}... what do you know about family? Before today I would have thought the word was foreign to you. You and your father clearly came into this house keeping secrets, and you want to talk about FAMILY?” Her grip on my father’s neck tightens.

I couldn’t deny the validity of her claims, but I still knew this wasn’t her true voice. But I then again... what if this was mom’s true voice? What if she had felt like this all this time and was just putting on a smile to hold things together?

My mother’s yelling pulls me out of my thoughts. “I’m sick and tired of all of you. I’m sick of this family!”

As my mother screams, her grip further tightens around my father’s neck. The woman who had once always asked me for help opening tight jars from the kitchen cabinets had just attained enough strength to crush my father’s windpipe. As she releases his throat, his body slumps over on the ground… devoid of any sign of life.

The creature which has taken my mother’s form shockingly... begins to cry? As warm tears stream down her cheeks onto my father’s lifeless body, a deep feeling of indignation builds up inside me.

“HOW DARE YOU DROP MY MOTHER’S TEARS ONTO MY FATHER’S BODY! YOU MONSTER!”

The monster instantly looks up towards me. Once our eyes meet for the second time, I quickly look around the kitchen and my eyes lock onto a blade.

I dash towards the knife with my hand reaching out. In the same moment, the monster jumps towards me, recognizing my deadly intentions. By the time I grab the knife, the distance between us has shrunk to less than a foot. I turn the blade towards her rapidly and feel a sudden resistance in my hands. I look down… the blade is pressed deep into her abdomen. The creature’s body drops to the ground as I release my grip.

Leaning back on a counter, I take a look at the horrid scene. As my hands tremble, I remember the only remnant of my now broken family. Leaving behind my parents, I dash upstairs to Talha’s room.

When I burst in, Talha’s lying on her bed with her headphones on listening to music. In response to my intrusion, she stops her song and looks at me, “{{ name }}, can you knock please, what’s your probl—”. Talha was the most perceptive person I knew, even at her age. My grim expression likely said more to her than any words could have.

“Grab some stuff. We have to go,” I tell her.

She anxiously cries out, “What do you mean we have to go? Where’s Mom and Dad?”

I look away.

“Please Talha just listen for now. I’ll explain everything later. You have five minutes.”

I run into my room and start shoveling my things into my backpack. What did I need? Enough for a few days, weeks… months? I shake my head. I can’t think like that. I need to focus on one thing at a time. By the time I fill my backpack with some of my belongings, I walk into the hallway where Talha’s already waiting.

When we go down the stairs I tell Talha to go out of the back door and wait for me by the car. I couldn’t let her see mom and dad like that. After Talha makes it safely out the house I turn my attention towards the keys laying on the living room ottoman.

I try to look at my parents one last time while I go to grab the keys but my head refuses to give way. I force my neck to turn. I force my mind to accept it. Had I just been a little faster, or smarter, things could have been different.

As I run out the house’s door for potentially the last time, memories start to flood in. I remember my mom’s delicious yam porridge breakfast that had warmed the dining table just a few hours ago. Now, that same table was smeared with blood stains from one of the three bodies left in the room. Not long ago, the wall clock’s long hand was gilding over 9 and it’s short hand over 8 as I dashed out the front door to school. And now, both hands rest over 6 as I head out the back door- leaving my parents, my home, and part of myself behind.//Without further thought, I jump towards my mother with arms outstretched. Preoccupied by my gasping father, I’m able to knock her grip from his neck and hold her against the wall. Her nails begin to dig into my arms as I scream out in agony.

“{{ name }}!” My dad yells out as he comes to help restrain my mother. My mother’s grip loosens from my arms and I pull back, still bloodied from the engagement.

“{{ name }}, there’s a herbal sedative in the medicine cabinet. Grab it and administer it to your mother, now!”

Heeding my dad’s words, I rush to the medicine cabinet inside the downstairs bathroom. This time, I’m able to quickly locate the medication vial and a syringe. By the time, I run back into the kitchen, my mother has begun to slightly overpower my father, but there’s no time to think about that.

I kneel down beside my mother and father and prepare to administer the sedative. I had watched my dad treat patients countless times, but for my first experience to be in such dire circumstances was unimaginable. Sensing my worry my father says, “I know you’re stressed but don’t think too much about it. Follow my instructions.”

“Remove the cap from the vial.” I quickly unscrew the vial’s lid.

“Withdraw the medication with the syringe.”  With the syringe in my right hand and the vial in my left, I begin filling the syringe with the herbal sedative.

“Now—” Before my father can even finish, my hands automatically begin to move through the motions I had seen him do over and over.

I point the syringe up and flick it to move all of the air bubbles to the tip.

I press down gently on the plunger to remove the excess air.

I locate the deltoid muscle by feeling for the bone at the top of the upper arm.

I then calmly insert the needle into my mother’s arm and press down on the plunger. Her erratic movements cause some bleeding but as the medication flows in she becomes increasingly docile.

I remove the needle and press down on the injection site.

“Great job {{ name }}. Now get your sister and go.” My dad delivers this surprising statement as calmly as ever.

“What? What do you mean go?”

“I mean go. Go somewhere… anywhere but here. When your mother wakes up from that sedative, I can’t guarantee that she’ll be herself again. In fact… I doubt it. But, one thing I’m sure of is that she would never want to put the two of you in danger.”

I want to say something back but I know he’s right.

“Grab my car’s keys and go {{ name }}! Please, for your mother’s sake.”

Reluctantly, I run upstairs to Talha’s room.

When I burst in, Talha’s on her bed with her headphones on listening to music. In response to my intrusion, she stops her song and looks at me, “{{ name }}, can you knock please, what’s your probl—”. Talha was the most perceptive person I knew, even at her age. My grim expression likely said more to her than any words could have.

“Grab some stuff. We have to go,” I tell her.

She anxiously cries out, “What do you mean we have to go? Where’s Mom and Dad?”

I look away.

“Please Talha just listen for now. I’ll explain everything later. You have five minutes.”

I run into my room and start shoveling my things into my backpack. What did I need? Enough for a few days, weeks… months? I shake my head. I can’t think like that. I need to focus on one thing at a time. By the time I fill my backpack with some of my belongings, I walk into the hallway where Talha’s already waiting.

When we go down the stairs I tell Talha to go out of the back door and wait for me by the car. I couldn’t let her see mom and dad like that. After Talha makes it safely out the house I turn my attention towards the keys laying on the living room ottoman.

I look at my parents one last time while I go to grab the keys. My father nods his head approvingly as I grab them and turn my back away.

As I run out the door, I take in the scene one last time. I remember my mom’s delicious yam porridge breakfast that had warmed the dining table just a few hours ago. Now, that same table was smeared with blood stains from one of the three bodies left in the room. Not long ago, the wall clock’s long hand was gilding over 9 and it’s short hand over 8 as I dashed out the front door to school. And now, both hands rest over 6 as I run out the back door- leaving my parents, my home, and part of myself behind.**

%%Christ//Prophet%%Christ//Survivalist%%

&&&&

$$$$

@@@@

{{ filler }}











