Chapter VIII: Revelation||“Is this it? I’ve seen weeds more elegant.”

“It’s not meant to be. The building represents the humble nature of our people.”

The silence of our drive is broken once the sun returns, marking the beginning of the second day of Ireji. I imagine that a good night’s sleep helped Tahla process all that had happened, at least partially.

On the outside, the Elders’ Den is a simple, one story building, no different than that of a small shop or a modest home. On the inside, it is an elaborate marble capitol building with multiple underground floors growing in width as you descend. In order to make themselves available to the public as spiritual leaders of Karasi, the elders could always be found at the top floor.

We grab our belongings, walk into the building and are once again confronted with an unfamiliar emptiness. In all the pictures I’d seen the Den had been packed, but now it is so bare we could make out the elders’ quarters at the end of the hall. Despite the sense of urgency we feel, we walk across the hall and calmly knock on the door.

We’re screened at the door by one of the elders, clad in plain clothing with a solemn expression on her face.

“What brings you here?” she says.

There is so much I need to ask in this moment, I don’t know where to start. Before I can pick, another elder chimed in.

“Akua, let them in. If they had the disease they wouldn’t tolerate such poor hospitality anyway.”

The elder at the door lets us through, shooting a disapproving look at her colleague all the while.

“My children. I do not know what you have endured, but I reason it has taken a toll on your bodies, minds, and souls. As I’m sure you’ve seen, our nation is suffering from what appears to be some sort of food-borne plague. We have classified it as IMPIR, and identified its effects as predominantly spiritual and neuropsychological. Upon ingestion, the parasite alters activity in the brain regions responsible for memory and emotion. Positive emotions and memories are inhibited, and the opposite is true for their negative counterparts. Being cut off from these emotions and memories vital to the human experience, the spirits of the infected are poisoned, and they lash out.”

Knowing the physiology of what had happened to my mother, moreso what was happening to our country--unsurprisingly it makes me feel no better after all our suffering. I am filled with the same rage and confusion I felt when it all first struck.

“So what will be done to stop it?” I say through a strained voice. I haven’t the intention of being disrespectful in tone but I can’t hide all I feel.

As if my voice was the catalyst, the tone in the room shifts. The 15 or so elders gathered around the table all wear grave expressions. The elder who first greeted us gives word to their plan.

“There is little we can do but consolidate resources to be redistributed among those unafflicted. Over half our medical professionals have been taken by either their own infections or those already infected themselves. Those left say that our only hope of reversal is to stimulate the affected regions above the threshold of the parasite’s inhibitory activity. If such negative emotional and spiritual energy can dominate during Ireji of all times, the infected are already lost to us.”

The disappointment on Tahla’s face is crushing. To see our nation's ‘heroes’ fail us before our very own eyes is nearly as painful as all we have already endured. “This can’t be true…” she whimpers.

I didn’t want to believe that the elders would abandon so many of our people, but all signs said this was true. Come to think of it, we heard news of the collection and exploitation of our goods just before all this happened, and yet there was no warning...

The sense of betrayal I feel is matched by the hostility I’m sensing from some of the elders in the room.

“Why wouldn’t it be?” exclaims another elder. “We spend all of these years protecting and sponsoring ‘our people’ just for them to abandon everything we’ve instilled in them at first opportunity! We have done enough for them. Let them suffer, the sane left among us will enjoy the fruits of our labor.”

“Fine. If you’ve given up on the people you swore to protect and guide, that is your decision. Tell me how to stop it and I’ll do it on my own.”

“And why should we tell you? So you can go to those savages and raise hell promising some ‘cure?’ Foolish child. Your optimism is as useless as a tree bearing no fruit.”

I need a way to get answers from them, but it seems as though reason is off the table.||“STOP!!” Tahla exclaims.

I didn’t even have the opportunity to finish my sentence before I was smacked across the mouth by one of the elders.

“Did you think… did you think you could come into our domain and spew such DISRESPECT?! You may not be one of these savages but we will not hesitate to treat you like one if you do not leave at once.”

Their defeatist attitude and my own pain gave birth to a revelation: IMPIR's effect on the average Karasian was more profound than its effect on its hosts. All those afflicted could be cured within the hour, and the damage done to the bonds tying our communities together would still be near irreparable.

I quickly glance around the room. It is clear the elders had no intention of voluntarily helping us, and it didn’t seem as if they’d object to doing the opposite either. Accepting the fact that no words would sway them, my mind jumps to the possibility of bribery.

“What if we have something to offer in exchange for it? It would take no effort other than speaking what you already know, and yet you’d be undeservingly rewarded.”

“Such a proposition would be intriguing, if your destitute selves actually possessed something of value!” an elder exclaimed.||

##Plead with them//Insult them##

**“How could you? Your country needs you! So you will just sit and watch while your people descend into madness and--”// “You decrepit old coots, your country needs your rotten selves! So you will just sit fat and watch idly while your people descend into madness and--”**

%%Christ//Antichrist%%

@@yafeu_dead@@

&&Tahla and I rummage through our bags, praying to find something of value. In Yafeu’s bag, we find exactly what we are searching for. Beneath mounds of clothing, food, and toiletries lay a ring holding a clear cut black diamond, the most precious mineral found in Karasi. As I pull it out of the bag, I feel the elders’ piercing stares. Eager to obtain their prize, one elder holds the other end of the bargain.

“The only hope to free the minds of those taken hostage by IMPIR is to positively stimulate the affected brain regions above the threshold of inhibition created by the parasite. Now you may know why you are a fool. If this threshold could not be reached during Ireji of all times, there is nothing to save those infected.”

Now indifferent to the the elders' vile nature, I casually toss the ring, grab Tahla, and exit the office. As we walk back across the main hall to our car, we hear the elders bickering over who would get the ring. That bickering escalates to screaming, which then leads to audible violence. Such a scene at such a sacred place no longer even moves me. I pray Tahla could stomach such cultural atrocity and promptly focus my mind on solving our problem. The elders had confirmed my hypothesis; the proper stimulant could bring back a person under IMPIR's grip. A small victory, but it didn't get us any closer to actually finding what this stimulant would be. Nevertheless, we had gotten some of what we came for: hope.//

Tahla and I rummage through our bags, praying to find something of value. We dig through small mounds of clothes, food, and toiletries, but are met with nothing that could entice the fiends sitting before us.

“Foolish children. You have come to market with nothing to bargain with. Leave this place at once, lest you wish to anger us further.” The other elders’ scowls mark their agreement.

I want to try to find some other way to get the elders to help us, but I know better than to incite them further. There were 2 of us, and many more of them. As we leave the Elders’ Den empty-handed, I am silently bitter and full of rage. Had Tahla not been in our presence, my encounter with the elders may have been much less placid. I had formed a hypothesis as to how a cure for IMPIR may function, but the lack of the elders' confirmation makes it a shot in the dark.

More than that, we came to them, the pillars of our nations spiritual and moral values, and of sound body and mind they rejected to help us. After all the blows we have endured, I am left with little hope.&&

$$actually possessed something of value!” an elder exclaimed.$$

{{ filler }}














