Chapter X: The Legend of Karasi||The third day of Ireji. A year ago, today would have meant everything to me and my country. I was finally of age to lead my community in prayer the moment the sun rested and the moon stood still. The smell of the burned ube stems would waft through the air as it protected us from all evils. My family and neighbors would have sat shoulder to shoulder on an impressively long table enjoying the food that we had spent all season cultivating. My parents would have woken up at dawn to prepare a selection of food that would feed everyone who was hungry within a 10 mile radius. Actually, they would insist upon all of us eating regardless of our appetite. Tahla would have spent all day practicing her slit drums, a sound I found almost maddening but today a sound that I find myself missing. Yafeu and I would have spent all day trailing behind our parents wondering when the food was ready and when the activities would commence. We would have rejoiced in song and dance and celebrated the spirits that had been so good to us.||

## Reveal your Ending //Reveal your Ending// Reveal your Ending//Reveal your Ending ##

**“What happens next,{{ name }}?” Tahla asks, looking at me with eyes full of hope that I would have all the right answers. I’m not sure that I do, but I do know what Ireji was supposed to be. If the elders were right, that alone would be enough.

“We need to get dinner ready,” I decide.

Tahla and I head straight to the kitchen. We salvage as much of the potatoes, yams, peppers, and tomatoes as we could, carefully splicing any remnants of the IMPIR’s visible trace. Neither of us are cooks by any means, but we had watched our parents make these mouth-watering dishes every year. Yam porridge. Egusi soup. Jollof rice. Something about the familiarity of the food made everything feel almost normal.

We set the table and the chairs in our nearby park. Every year, on the third day of Ireji our neighborhood would gather here to celebrate. Today, it’s just us and the dead patches of grass. The sky is pitch black now, but the fire I had started illuminated the table with its warm orange glow.  I light the ube stems and its smoke fills me with hope that what I’m doing is right. The heat tickles my skin as we finally sit.

After 18 years of waiting, it was my turn to bless the food and lead a prayer. I had expected a larger audience, but it doesn’t make this moment any less important. No Karasian would turn down an Ireji feast. I have faith the sound of the slit drums, the smell of our harvest, and the smoke of the ube would remind us of the country we once knew. In celebrating this sacred day we are connecting to our cultural and spiritual roots, something that IMPIR can’t take away from us.//“What happens next,{{ name }}?” Tahla asks, looking at me with eyes full of hope that I would have all the right answers.

I take a moment to think. IMPIR’s reach was far too great for either of us to save anyone other than ourselves. “We need to leave Karasi,” I finally say. Some of our neighbors have already started to move to Ayira, our sister nation. The Ayirans will welcome us with open arms, they always have.”

My decision to leave our home was not an easy one. To leave everything we had ever known behind would be painful, but offered us the best chance at survival. Karasi was descending into madness, and if we stayed behind, we would too.

“I’m not sure if this is a good idea, {{ name }}. We’d be abandoning everyone.”

“If we stay, there’s no guaranteeing we won’t be affected too. If it can happen to the elders, the people we’re supposed to trust the most, it can happen to us. You know that. I want to make sure we’re safe Tahla.”

As we pack our bags in silence and say our own goodbyes to the house and all it had given us, it hits me that I may never see Karasi ever again. A country that has meant everything to me may soon become nothing more than a distant memory.

By nightfall, we board the train to Ayira. As if I was watching a movie at two times speed, the flurry of images flash before my eyes: solemn scenes of empty streets with dried blood splashes from former fights, children pressing their faces to the window because they’re too afraid to go outside, and trees stripped of their leaves, skeletons of their former selves. This isn’t how you should remember Karasi, a land whose name has been tainted by a foreign beast.//“What happens next, {{ name }}?” Tahla asks, looking at me with eyes full of hope that I would have all the right answers. I’m not sure that I do, but I do know what Ireji was supposed to be.That alone should be enough.

“We need to get dinner ready,” I decide.

Tahla and I head straight to the kitchen. We salvage as much of the potatoes, yams, peppers, and tomatoes as we could, carefully splicing any remnants of the IMPIR’s visible trace. Neither of us are cooks by any means, but we had watched our parents make these dishes every year. Yam porridge. Egusi soup. Jollof rice. Something about the familiarity of the food made everything feel almost normal. My hope was that it would do the same for our people as well.

When we finish preparing our food, I inform Tahla of my idea.

“We need to get our neighbors. Ireji’s third day is a communal celebration. There’s no feast without them.”

“What if they’re affected?”

“No Karasian would turn down an Ireji feast.”

One by one we knock on the door of every house that doesn’t look vacant. If they don’t answer, we drop a plate and light the ube stem planted firmly on a stand. As we walk away, sometimes I notice their door cracking open a little allowing them to be greeted by the scent of burning ube. If they do answer, we don’t need to spend too much time explaining the Ireji festivities we’ve planned. They know, likely more than I do, how important today is. Perhaps now some are focused on the free food, or wary of any visits from strangers in such a time. When the time comes, they will remember all that is special about our community and this day.

Together, we set the table and the chairs in our nearby park. Every year this is where our neighborhood would gather. Today, there may not be as many of us, but it is a celebration nonetheless. The sky is pitch black now, but the fire I had started illuminated the table with its warm orange glow. I light the ube stems and its smoke fills me with hope that what I’m doing is right. The heat tickles my skin. After 18 years of waiting, it was my turn to bless the food and lead a prayer. As we sit hand in hand, we recite the prayer in unison. For the first time in what has felt like an eternity, I feel connected to a larger community. The sound of the slit drums, the smell of our harvest, and the smoke of the ube reminds us of the ways of our people. We are connected to our cultural and spiritual roots, something that IMPIR can’t take away from us.//“What happens next, {{ name }}?” Tahla asks, looking at me with eyes full of hope that I would have all the right answers.

I take a moment to think. Everything thus far had gone according to plan.

“There’s nothing we can do. The Elders were right. The parasite has taken hold of our nation, poisoned the roots that keep our communities alive.”

She glares at me teary eyed, disappointment worn on her face.

“I can’t believe you’re agreeing with them!” she said, almost shouting. “We’ve been through so much, and you just want to sit here and wait? What the hell is that gonna accomplish? There has to be something.”

I’ve gotten too far to have her start suspecting me now. “You’re right. I think it’s best for us to split up. You need to go back to the Elders and see if they can give you any more answers. Come back here when you do, before sundown.  I’ll stay and cook. It’s still Ireji and we will still feast. If IMPIR is taking away what it means for us to be Karasian then our traditions will preserve that. Besides, we can’t think on an empty stomach.”

“What if they attack?” She sounded hesitant but I knew she was eager to help and having lost so much, would listen to anything I say.

“Take our family’s cobalt gem. It’s sharp enough to do some harm. Say you’re on their side, they’ve always favored you. Ask questions but be smart. If all else fails, defend yourself.” Frankly, I didn’t really care if she did. This is the first time I’m telling you this but since we have finally reached the end of days, I should be honest with you about my true intentions.

When Tahla leaves, I don’t prepare a feast for I know this will only be a dinner for one. As sundown passes and Tahla does not appear, I know I have succeeded. The third day of Ireji was Karasi’s last hope, nothing else can undo the deep rooted harm of IMPIR. The next morning, I look through the window basking in the visible signs of my quiet triumph: empty streets with dried blood splashes from former fights, children pressing their faces to the window because they’re too afraid to go outside, and trees stripped of their leaves, skeletons of their former selves. The elders were right; those savages will finally get what they have long deserved.**

%%prophet//survivalist//christ//antichrist%%

&&Instead, on the most sacred of days I find myself in disbelief that we had escaped the kiss of death, and the musical notes that would have fluttered through the air are replaced by a deafening silence. Having escaped the Elders’ Den, we made our way home.

The moment we enter our house we find our dad sat opposite the door. He instinctively bolted the second he heard the door click open. It was clear from his glassy, puffy eyes that he hadn’t slept.

“I thought you were her,” he said almost disappointedly.

He explained that the monster that had taken over my mom’s body had run away, abandoning her own husband and children. The day IMPIR seeped into our nation, we had lost her. My dad is in denial of that fact.

“I’m going out to find her. I thank the spirits you’re both safe, but I can’t sleep until I know she is too.”

We hug him goodbye and I make a wish that IMPIR doesn’t corrupt him too.//Instead, on the most sacred of days I find myself orphaned and the musical notes that would have fluttered through the air are replaced by a deafening silence. Having escaped the Elders’ Den, we made our way home.

The moment we enter our house Tahla and I are met with the sight and smell of our parents’ lifeless bodies. I had been too in shock to hide such a scene from Tahla but I think to believe what had happened she too needed to see it with her own eyes. We stood in silence for a moment, not knowing who to call or what we could do to numb our loss.

“We can’t leave them like this,” I finally say.

“What children bury their own parents? {{ name }}, I can't do this. Two days ago, I was in my room getting ready for our family dinner, and now we don't even have a family anymore. I want to help but this is all too much too fast.”

I understand her sentiments, but there is no use in delaying the inevitable. “Tahla. What choice do we have? They’re gone. How could we leave them here to rot?” My voice cracks as the pain behind my words seeps in.

With that, we grab two shovels and begin digging our parents’ grave. We didn’t have time to give them any semblance of a proper ceremony; it was a few hours until sundown.&&

@@parents_dead@@

$$We would have rejoiced in song and dance and celebrated the spirits that had been so good to us.$$

{{ filler }}